% RC Car ESC: Control Logic General Description
% Mike Grozak

## Introduction

This is an algorithm, which is basically applicable to the circuits without a
microcontroller found in this folder. Circuit provided by StefanV is a bit
different not having clear selector of "BRAKE" action, rather an
action by "default" in the absence of any throttling activity.

## Glossary

- Rising edge: LOW -> HIGH
- Falling edge: HIGH -> LOW
- Leading edge: an edge which defines the beginning of the event
- Trailing edge: an edge which defines the end of the event
- "REVERSE" - reverse action and part of the circuitry which is responsible for
  reverse movement
- "FORWARD" - forward action and part of the circuitry which is responsible for
  forward movement

In principle, "REVERSE" or "FOR0WARD" might not have anything to do with
movement: these are just activators for the sub-circuits.

## Basic Example Circuit

    lazy-b-2004-1.sch

## Pulse duration ranges

- 1.5ms pulse is our neutral gear
- between 1ms and 1.5ms - "REVERSE"
- between 1.5ms and 2ms - "FORWARD"

## General description

_R3-Q1-C2-R4-P1_ is a monostable multivibrator which sets duration of a neutral
pulse. Discharge time time is defined by RC chain _C2-R4-P1_. Normal state is
HIGH (output of _U2-3 pin 3_).  On the leading edge of the input it's set to
LOW. If the trailing edge of the input signal happens before the end of the
"neutral" pulse, then it's decoded as a "REVERSE" signal. Output of the
corresponding gate goes HIGH until the end of the neutral pulse, thus enabling
the "REVERSE".

Rising edge of the "neutral" blocks "REVERSE": _U1-2 pin 5_ goes HIGH,
- and enables "FORWARD" movement by setting _U1-1 pin 2_ to LOW.

If the trailing edge of the RX-signal occurs after the trailing edge of the
"neutral" pulse, "FORWARD" control gate is activated thus enabling it.

## Algorithm

U1-1 controls the "FORWARD", U1-2 controls the "REVERSE". 

On the leading edge of the RX pulse:

- _U1-1 pin 1_ is LOW
- _U1-2 pin 6_ is HIGH_
- Monostable multivibrator _R3-Q1-C2-R4-P1_ is triggered; _U2-3 pin 7_ goes
  HIGH and _U2-3 pin 6_ is LOW for a time defined by the discharge time of _C2_
  via _R4-P1_.
- As the result of mono triggering,_U1-2 pin 5_ is LOW, _U1-1 pin 2_ is HIGH as
  gating signal is inverted by _U1-3_

If the RX trailing edge happens before trailing edge of a "neutral" pulse: _U1-1
pin 1_ goes HIGH, _U1-2 pin 6_ goes LOW; as _U1-2 pin 5_ was already low due to
mono action, therefore _U1-2 pin 4_ goes HIGH, thus activating the "REVERSE".

If the "neutral" trailing edge happens before RX trailing edge: _U1-1 pin 1_ is
still LOW, _U1-1 pin 2_ goes LOW => _U1-1 pin3_ goes HIGH thus activating
"FORWARD"; _U1-2 pin 5_ goes HIGH, thus blocking the "REVERSE" completely.
